12.31.1999  Performance Server Library v2.000  Daniel Huffman


Performance Tuning by Artificial Intelligence



"Its alive. Alive!"  -Dr. Frankenstein


  i)  Indications
 ii)  Artificial Intelligence Selection
iii)  The Performance Server Genome
 iv)  The Process of Life


 

 i)  Indications

Performance Servers may be asked to do a wide variety of functions on a 
wide variety of platforms.  A generic algorithm that will take into 
account Performance Server resources and timing, the underlying 
platform, and other executing processes, in order to find the optimum 
throughput and customer response time, may be hard to find.  A future 
change in the Performance Server resources would affect this algorithm, 
forcing a new algorithm to be found.  Instead of finding this elusive 
algorithm, the Performance Server Library v2.000 uses artificial 
intelligence to find, perhaps not the ultimate optimum, but a very good 
approximation, of the best server performance, regardless of platform, 
working environment, and other executing processes.




 ii)  Artificial Intelligence Selection

The artificial intelligence selected to tune the performance of servers 
written using the Performance Server Library v2.000 is genetic 
algorithms using DNA.  Each Performance Server has the capability to 
install, during execution, a Performance Server Genome.  This 
Performance Server Genome determines the utilization and timing of the 
Performance Server Library v2.000 resources.  A Performance Genome can 
be installed in to an executing Performance Server via the Executable 
Programmer Interface.




iii)  The Performance Server Genome

Performance Server Genome personas create execution performance 
profiles for Performance Servers.  The interpretation of the genomes 
includes a cycle period in which resource utilization can change 
dynamically.  This can facilitate a Performance Server anticipating 
different operating environments at different real world time points.  
A useful example may be when a system executes weekend accounting, the 
Performance Server Genome changes a Performance Servers resource 
behavior and configuration.  However, a different Performance Server 
Genome can be installed into an executing server at anytime, so a 
server administrator may decide to load a different Performance Server 
Genome on weekend days than on weekdays.

A Performance Server Genome consities of 24 chromosomes with 2048 genes 
on each.  The Performance Server Library v2.000 allows entities to be 
named, and have unique ids.  Entities also contain a value for a score 
and a running score.  Written in OLP, a Performance Server Genome is 
approxementy 50K bytes.

Please see the Performance Server Genome Map for location and gene 
definition of traits that control performance resources in a 
Performance Server.




 iv)  The Process of Life

The manual process of Performance Server Life will be replaced, in the 
future, with an optional automated process.  Performance Server Life 
process mimics earth cell life and reproduction.  Darwin's Threoy of 
Evolution and earth's cell life and reproduction find the best 
performance of life, within a constrained environment, through the 
process of the Survival of the Fittest.  This is a type of 
intelligence, and the algorithm can be followed in computer processes.  
This genetic algorithm creates the artificial intelligence that servers 
written using the Performance Server Library v2.000 utilizes.

The Performance Server Life process begins by creating a colony of 
entities.  Each eneity has their dna selected at random or an 
administrator writes a performance genome using the genome map.  Each 
entity is placed in control of a Performance Server, in the environment 
in question, and the entities performance is scored.  After all the 
entities have a score, a portion of the lower scoring genomes are 
discarded.  The remaining entities reproduce among themselves to create 
a new generation of the colony.  The reproduction algorithm is 
described below.  The life process starts over as a new colony.  An 
entity that performs very well, for the environment, is generated quite 
quickly, after four or five generations.

The Performance Server Life process of reproduction mimics earth cell 
life DNA reproduction very closely.  Eneties are mated at random.  The 
two sets of genomes are combined and new genomes are produced.  This 
creates new entities.  Each mated entities' chromosomes are paired up.  
The chromosomes pairs are lined up and a cross over point is selected 
at random.  One or both chromosome's genes may be reversed.  A new pair 
of chromosomes are created by copying the crossed pair without the 
cross.  Mutations also occur, however unlike earth life, the mutation 
rate is configurable in each entity.  Two types of mutations may occur, 
one or more random genes on the chromosome are simply replaced by a new 
random gene value, and two neighbor genes at a random location on the 
chromosome are transposed.


